BIFID QUADRANT CIPHER

I.INTRODUCTION
	The researchers propose a hybrid of two existing ciphers, the Bifid Cipher and the Four-Square Cipher, which were 
	invented by French cryptographer Félix-Marie Delastelle. This hybrid cipher shall be called Bifid Quadrant Cipher (BQC).

Bifid Cipher
	The Bifid Cipher makes use of a Polybius square as its key, a 5 x 5 grid of letters where rows and columns are labeled with 
	numbers 1 to 5. Since there are only 25 squares, the letter "j" is omitted and may be substituted with the letter "i".

	For example, to encrypt the word "BAT", the letters are first located in the grid and the coordinates recorded as follows, 
  	where the first row corresponds to the row coordinate and the second row corresponds to the column coordinate:

	These two sets of numbers are then written side by side, paired into two's, and will be the new coordinates of the cipher text:
    		1  1  4  2  1  4  →  1,1   4, 2   1,4
    		1,1 = A;  4,2 = R;  1,4 = D
    		Cipher text = ARD
    
Four-Square Cipher
	The Four Square Cipher uses four 5 x 5 matrices arranged in a square, like its name implies.  Each of the 5 by 5 matrices 
  	contains the letters of the alphabet, usually omitting "Q" or putting both "I" and "J" in the same location to reduce the 
  	alphabet to fit. In general, the upper-left and lower-right matrices are the "plaintext squares" and each contain a 
  	standard alphabet. The upper-right and lower-left squares are the "cipher text squares" and contain a mixed alphabetic sequence. 
	For the specific steps involved in this cipher, the following is used:
		Plaintext: BATS
		Key 1: NIGHT
		Key 2: ECHO
	The upper left and lower right matrices shall consist of the alphabet in order, while the upper right and lower left matrices 
  	shall consist of key 1 and key 2, respectively.

 	The plaintext shall be grouped into two's, and shall be located in the upper left and lower right matrices.

	The cipher text shall now be located in the upper right and lower left matrices by finding the two letters that would serve as 
  	the other two vertices in order to form a square:

	The corresponding cipher text for b is the letter N while the corresponding cipher text for a is the letter C. This process is 
  	repeated until the final pair of letters, which would result to the following cipher text:
        		NCRT

	The Bifid Quadrant Cipher combines the coordinate feature of the Bifid Cipher and the four separate 5x5 grids of the Four-Square 
  	Cipher, making it into one 10x10 grid. 

II.ALGORITHM
	The Bifid Quadrant Cipher uses two sets of key texts to encrypt the plaintext. Using the concept of the Four-Square Cipher, 
  	this cipher uses a 10x10 table that is divided into four quadrants, instead of four separate squares. Each of the quadrants 
  	contains a 25-letter set of the alphabet omitting ‘j’. 

  	The rows are columns are both labeled by numbers 0-9. The first key text will then be plotted in quadrants I and II, while 
  	the second key text will be plotted in quadrants III and IV.
  
A. ENCRYPTION
	The first key text will be used to fill in the first and second quadrant, while the second key text will be used to fill in the 
  	third and fourth quadrants. In filling in the squares, the letters comprising the key text is placed first. After that, the rest 
  	of the alphabet shall be placed in the remaining squares. Because there are only 25 squares, the letter j is omitted and shall  
  	be combined with the letter "i". To illustrate the steps more clearly, the following example is used:
	  
	  	Key Text 1: Cryptology 
          	Key Text 2: is fun
	  	Plaintext: Hello World

	Using this arrangement of the alphabet characters, we can now start plotting to encrypt a message. The plaintext is first split
	into groups of two, otherwise called a digraph. If the plaintext consists of an odd number of letters, one extra letter shall 
	be added to the end, such as X.
	
      		H E	L L	O W	O R	L D
		
	The first letter is to be located in the first quadrant, while the second letter in the fourth quadrant.

	Using the same method as the Four-Square cipher, the corresponding cipher text shall be the other two letters found in 
	the second and third quadrant which would complete the square. The equivalent cipher text of the first letter shall be taken 
	from the second quadrant, while the second letter's cipher text shall be taken from the third quadrant.

	In this example, the equivalent cipher text for "HE" is "ID". This process is repeated up to the last digraph, and it will 	
	result to the following cipher text:
	
      		H E	L L	O W	O R	L D
     		I D	A H	L V	A O	A B
		
	The coordinates of the cipher text shall then be written into two rows, in which the first row consists of the row number, 
	and the second row of the column number.

	To get the cipher text, the second row shall be written after the numbers in the first row:
		
		Cipher Text = 26171918169381608081
      
B. DECRYPTION
	The expected cipher text shall be a string of numbers. The following example shall be used to further illustrate the steps 
    	involved in decryption:
			
			Cipher text: 26080807299080629471
			Key 1: Cryptology
			Key 2: is fun
			
	The cipher text shall be divided into two, and the second set of numbers shall be written below the first set of numbers.

	A 10 x 10 grid shall be drawn up, and be filled with the two keys accordingly, with the same process as the encryption.

	The coordinates are grouped into two's, and shall be plotted in the grid. The first pair of coordinates is plotted in the 
  	second quadrant, while the second pair shall be plotted in the third quadrant. This is the text equivalent of the cipher text 
	numbers.

	The equivalent plaintext shall be found by locating the two letters from quadrants one and two that would complete the square.

	The process is repeated until the last pair of coordinates has been translated into the corresponding plaintext.

			Plaintext: DECRYPT ME X
		
	In this example, an extra letter is added because the plaintext has an odd number of letters.
